# Project Description

Much of the research in the geosciences, such as projecting future changes in the environment and improving weather and flood
forecasting, is conducted using computational models that simulate the Earth's atmosphere, oceans, and land surfaces. These
geoscience models are part of the full research workflow that leads to scientific discovery. There is strong agreement across
the sciences that reproducible workflows are needed. Open and reproducible workflows not only strengthen public confidence in
the sciences, but also result in more efficient community science, leading to faster time to science. However, recent efforts
to standardize data sharing and archiving guidelines within research institutions, professional societies, and academic
publishers make clear that the scientific community does not know what to do about data produced as output from the
computational models. To date, the rule for reproducibility is to "save all the data", but model data can be prohibitively
large, particularly in a field like atmospheric science. The massive size of the model outputs, as well as the large
computational cost to produce these outputs, makes this not only a problem of reproducibility, but also a "big data" problem.
To achieve open and reproducible workflows in geoscience modeling research, this project will bring together modelers
representing diverse research areas and application types, and representing modeling efforts from large to small.

Discussion across different modeling communities suggests that the answer to "what to do about model data" will look different
depending on model descriptors. Examples of important model descriptors include reproducibility, storage vs. computational
costs, and value to the community. Since the atmospheric model community is incredibly diverse, this project will organize
community workshops to tackle the problem. These workshops will involve representatives from across the geoscience modeling
spectrum, including both operations and research, and ranging across complexity and size. The ultimate goal of these workshops
is to provide model data best practices to the community, including scientific journal publishers, and funding agencies. To
achieve this goal, this team of researchers suggests to craft rubrics based on the model descriptors that will help
researchers and centers describe their model data in consistent terms so that proper decisions are made regarding archiving
and retention.

## Tentative Workshop Dates
* Boulder, CO workshop: May 5-8, 2020
* Grand Forks, ND workshop: Aug. 3-6, 2020

If you are interested in participating, please contact Doug Schuster, schuster@ucar.edu. Please provide a brief summary of your background, and why you would be interested in participating.  

Please find the award information through the following links:

[NSF Award 1929773](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1929773&HistoricalAwards=false)

[NSF Award 1929757](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1929757&HistoricalAwards=false)
